AI Study Buddy


data analysis and natural language processing
	-- student learning style, strengths, weeknesses 
		-- must adapt accordingly

ai buddy acts as
	-- virtual tutor + planner + doubt-solver --> in one system

supports students in studying, revising, and managing their academic workload by giving timetable accordingly


The AI analyzes the student’s:

	Performance

	Study habits

	Weak and strong topics

	by reciving their previously scored marks

Based on this, it:

	Recommends study materials

	Adjusts difficulty level

	Suggests revision schedules


Students can ask questions in natural language (like chatting with a friend).

	The AI:

	Explains concepts step-by-step

	Gives examples and analogies

	Rephrases explanations until the student understands


Smart Study Planning

	Creates daily or weekly study plans

	Balances:

	Subjects

	Breaks

	Deadlines

	Automatically adjusts the plan if the student misses a session


Practice & Assessment

	Generates:

	Quizzes

	MCQs

	Short answer questions

	Evaluates answers instantly

	Gives feedback and improvement tips


Progress Tracking

	Tracks:

	Time spent studying

	Test scores

	Topic mastery level

	Displays progress using graphs or reports

	Helps students stay motivated by showing improvement


Exam & Revision Support

	Provides:

	Last-minute revision notes

	Important questions

	Mock tests

	Highlights frequently asked or important topics


###Technologies Used in an AI Study Buddy

		Natural Language Processing (NLP):
		Understands student questions and responses.

		Machine Learning (ML):
		Learns from student behavior to improve recommendations.

		Recommendation Systems:
		Suggests resources based on learning patterns.

		Chatbot Frameworks:
		Enables conversational interaction.




steps to create a ai study buddy working website

1. the first page must show the sign in/ sign out/ login/ logout page
2. the second page after the sign in procedure is over, the student must appload there syllabus and their previous marks
3. The AI analyzes the student’s performance, study habits, weak and strong topics by reciving their previously scored marks
4. Based on this, it: recommends study materials, adjusts difficulty level and suggests revision schedules
5. Students can ask questions in natural language (like chatting with a friend).
	The AI:explains concepts step-by-step, gives examples and analogies, rephrases explanations until the student understands
6. Smart Study Planning
	Creates daily or weekly study plans
	Balances: subjects, breaks, deadlines and automatically adjusts the plan if the student misses a session
7. Practice & Assessment -- Generates:
	Quizzes
	MCQs
	Short answer questions
	Evaluates answers instantly
	Gives feedback and improvement tips
8. Exam & Revision Support -- Provides:
	Last-minute revision notes
	Important questions
	Mock tests
	Highlights frequently asked or important topics
9. Technologies Used in an AI Study Buddy website
	(a)Natural Language Processing (NLP):
		Understands student questions and responses.
	(b)Machine Learning (ML):
		Learns from student behavior to improve recommendations.
	(c)Recommendation Systems:
		Suggests resources based on learning patterns. 
	(d)Chatbot Frameworks:
		Enables conversational interaction.
10. Easy navigation = good UX
11. The UI must be in blue and green colour 
12. The user must get an option to change it to dark or light mode
	if light mode -- use black, light blue colour and light green colour
	else use white, dark blue colour and dark green colour
13. if dark mode selected, text must be in white colour
	else the text must be in black colour
14. Keep the buttons bold



(a) Profile setup
(c) AI 
(b) Technologies Used
(c) Easy navigation = good UX
(d) UI -- 
	COLOUR (TOOL USED -- Adobe Color) 
	TEXT (Headings: Poppins - Body text: Roboto)
	BUTTONS (Buttons Should Look Clickable) (Solid color -- Rounded corners) (Hover effects -- Slight color change -- Small shadow -- Smooth animation (0.2–0.3s)
	IMAGE/LOGO -- unplash-openinnewtab-link












ChatGPT Links:

	1. Basic Instructions - https://chatgpt.com/share/697a4c2f-c480-8000-9991-4fb26fcb8611
	2. UI Transitions & AI- https://chatgpt.com/share/697a4c88-a570-8000-9624-7118f83b2d29
	3. 










TO LEARN:
	
	1. How to host website?
	2. How to do a exported project?

	3. Make a slight transitions in UI
	4. Ask sanjju abt git hub repo -- hosting websites




🚀 Quick Deploy Options

Option 1: Render (Recommended - Free & Easy)
Push your code to GitHub first
Go to render.com
Sign up with GitHub → "New +" → "Web Service"
Connect your repo with these settings:
Build Command: pip install -r requirements.txt
Start Command: gunicorn app:app

Option 2: Railway (Also Free)
Go to railway.app
"Deploy from GitHub repo" → select your repository
Auto-deploys instantly!

Option 3: Heroku (Classic option)
heroku.com → Create app
Connect GitHub repo or use CLI

📁 Files I Created for Deployment
requirements.txt - Python dependencies
Procfile - Tells hosting service how to run your app
runtime.txt - Specifies Python version
.gitignore - Excludes unnecessary files
README.md - Deployment instructions

🔧 Production Changes Made
Added environment variable support for secret key
Configured proper host/port binding
Disabled debug mode for production
Set up gunicorn as production server

📋 Next Steps
Create GitHub repo and push your code
Choose a hosting platform from above
Deploy - your app will get a URL like https://your-app-name.onrender.com
Share the link with your users!

The app includes all your AI Study Buddy features: student profiles, AI chat tutor, study planning, practice quizzes, and exam prep. Once deployed, anyone can access it through the provided URL.

Which hosting platform would you like to use? I can provide more specific guidance for your chosen option.







